  
---While doing this project, I noticed how much different it was going to be for me since I have a PC and everyone else has a Mac. First of all JStor did not cooperate with me and it would not allow me to download the Data that I wanted. So I had to use Data from one of the samples. The corpus that I chose from the sample was the Aviantxt. While watching my classmates use mallat I realized how much easier it was for them to add in codes. I personally believe mallat works better with a Mac, but I finally figured out how to use it with my PC. Since I am using a PC, I knew it would be a little more difficult processing a certain amount of topics, so I was very cautious on the amount of topics I used. When I first started topic modeling I decided to only add 10 topics to see how well mallat would process the Data. After this I took out some stop words to make the data more accurate. I noticed that mallat did a good job with spelling and word choices within the topics, because I did not have to add a lot of stop words to the stop word list. After this I added 15 more topics two more times. I kept the number of topics low because I knew PC was a little more difficult with processing larger numbers. When I finished I had three files, 10 topics, 25 topics, and 40 topics. As I looked through all of them I decided to choose 40 topics. I chose 40 topics because it consisted of the most information. It was a lot easier for me to understand what was going on in the Aviantxt with the 40 topics. These topics give us a very detailed description of these different types of birds. While reading these topics I can comprehend how these birds live, their population, how fast the fly, how they reproduce, what they eat and also what eats them, how many different articles were written about them, and a lot more characteristics about them. Also why looking at these topics I noticed how each section had something to do with the biological study of each bird. I think topic modeling is a very unique way of finding key ideas in articles or books. Topic modeling would be great for research projects. If I were struggling to find important information in a text, I would know try to topic model. I also assume that even though topic modeling is a great resource for finding important topics within a text, that there are also some limitations with this method as well. When topic modeling you may not recieve all the topics in the text that you want. Mallat usually works well with adding as many detailed topics as possible, but there may be some key topics that are left it out. I believe more people should get familiar with topic modeling because it is a very useful way of finding key topics.
https://github.com/introdh2016/response1_textanalysis/blob/King/screenshot%20topic1.png?raw=true
