#Topic Modeling with the Journal of Japanese Studies

Using The Journal of Japanese Studies (JJS) as my corpus, in order to analyze how the construction of topics evolved as the number inputted increased, I did topic modeling four different times: 10 topics; 40 topics; 70 topics; and 100 topics. Firstly, I’d like to discuss the corpus before I attempt to explain anything about the topics that were produced. Established in 1974, the JJS is the forum for multidisciplinary issues to be facilitated, in English, as they stem from, or place relative focus on, Japan. The journal publishes roughly 500-page volumes twice a year, summer and winter. Prior to the actual topic modeling, due to the nature of the JJS, it can be assumed that the topics produced would reflect some aspect of Japanese history, culture and society. Furthermore, these kinds of topics would have certain keywords that an English audience would expect to appear based upon the journal’s description. 

Now, down to the fun part: The data. I chose to give myself a range of topics to review, with the 10-topic and 100-topic sets acting as my extremes. I ran the program twice at varying levels in order to pull specific occurrences, which I added to my stop list, and then ran the topic modeling for my extremes. The 10-topic model appeared, thematically, as expected. It seemed like an overview of of the common words one would expect to find when reading a historical/cultural centered journal. To use Lisa Rhody’s analogy, it was a presentation of the more ordinary fruits, which meant the Asian pears were still somewhere waiting to be unpacked and sorted. On the opposite end of the spectrum, was the 100-topic model. The 100-topic model appeared to thoroughly parse out and make clear distinctions between each topic. However, as the number of topics increased, so did the peculiar problem that arises when topic modeling romanized Japanese. Each topic began to be more focused on Japanese family names, saturating the topics with possibly irrelevant Japanese and incoherent calls to individuals. Megan Brett discusses David Mimno’s explanation for what exactly happens when someone runs a topic modeling program: 

##“The computer compares the occurrence of topics within a document to how a word has been assigned in other documents to find the best match” (Brett, 2).

Since topic modeling is not an “exact science,” the significance of the topics present in the 100-set could be linked to how the program managed to pull those Japanese words and names from the corpus, as the purpose of topic modeling is sometimes formed in hindsight: “The only way to know if your results are useful or wildly off the mark is to have a general idea of what you should be seeing” (Brett, 3). To simplify this response, I will further Rhody’s analogy as it applies to my study. The 100-topic set presented a wide variety of unique fruits and vegetables, however some of the more exotic fruits came with all these brands noted that help produce them. For the purpose of my study, I just wanted a better idea of the produce not the minutia of producers.

After running topic modeling for a 40 and 70 set, to analyze the topics produced between my extremes, I decided on the 40-topic set for the focus of my analysis. The 40-topic set had most of the keywords I expected to see present and, thematically, presents a core set of distinct topics to understand the multidisciplinary ways in which the JJS publishes the discourse that composes their forum, their English study of Japan. But, it can be argued that my topics could have been refined to another level depending on one perceives the relevance of the word “Japan,” and it other forms. In a corpus like the JJS, it would be almost self-evident that there would be an abundance of Japan occurrence in the corpus. Does that overtness enable us to list Japan as a stop word? As such, would the exclusion of it then significantly alter how the topics are produced? Brett states, “topic modeling is not necessarily useful as evidence but it makes an excellent tool for discovery” (Brett, 4). Part of that discovery hinges on what you attempt to discover from the outset, the subsequent parameters you establish and the results in lieu of original intentions. I sought to find a topic set that I thought could give insight into key themes that constitute our English understanding of Japanese culture and concepts, thus it would make sense that I chose the topic model that, I thought, gave a structured basis from which to explore the texts in the corpus. 
